Transcript
September 25, 2024, 6:59PM

Kenny, Mike   0:14
Hey, good afternoon, laurred. How are you?

Lori Byrd   0:16
I'm good.
How are you doing?

Kenny, Mike   0:18
I'm doing well.
How are things going in Alexandria today?

Lori Byrd   0:22
Well, not too bad, you know, I guess everybody's, you know, we're trying to make sure nothing gets shipped to your direction.

Kenny, Mike   0:31
My address. I'm I'm in Dallas, so my no, my good direction. I'm, I'm. I'm West of you folks. Sure.

Lori Byrd   0:33
Oh, you're not.
Yeah, we were.
I was in Dallas yesterday.

Kenny, Mike   0:45
Oh yeah, it's a it's a.
It's a good town.
It's, but it's traffic is tough place.

Lori Byrd   0:52
Traffic is a nightmare.
I'm just glad I don't drive over there.

Kenny, Mike   0:56
Yeah, it's it's not quite Alexandria, that's for sure.

Lori Byrd   1:01
No, people in Alexandria still don't have to drive, but nonetheless.

Kenny, Mike   1:10
It was really great of it was really great of John to put us together.
Could you give me a little more information on the NALA Conference and and?
How we could participate and possibly get some value out of attendance?

Lori Byrd   1:31
Yeah. I'm sorry that I didn't realize where you were because we had a a regional meeting in Dallas in Arlington.
Monday night or Monday afternoon, I guess.

Kenny, Mike   1:46
Right.

Lori Byrd   1:46
And I think it would have been a good opportunity for you to see a little bit and.
I be Matt Bruno, who is the executive director for Nala. He was there. But.
So basically what what the traders market in Phoenix in November is and of course you have to, you have to be a member and it's done by.
Service affiliate, wholesaler, manufacturer and different avenues there.

Kenny, Mike   2:19
So you would you would assume, I would assume that we would fall under the service program.

Lori Byrd   2:19
But.
Yes, yes.
You know, this year we should have about.
I don't think we'll have as many as we did two years ago in Phoenix, but there should be 1400 people there and the traders market.
There's a block party on Wednesday night and then Thursday morning, there's some educational.
Speakers Stephanie Couch is going to speak, and there's a like a round table with birds of a feather. And then the luncheon and then the traders market opens from 1:00 to 5:30, and then there's a cocktail party.
You can tell people in this industry drink.
And then Friday morning, the show is from 8:00 to noon, and people you know, you can break down your booth, afternoon and and leave. But it's.
There are transportation people there.
There's reload people there.
There's obviously saw mills, plywood plants, OSB, plants.
Treaters stocking distributors, wholesale distributors.
And it's a, you know, it's an overall mix of the people in this industry.

Kenny, Mike   3:41
So.

Lori Byrd   3:42
I don't know what y'all are exactly looking for.

Kenny, Mike   3:47
Yeah, I guess what we'd want to do is potentially participate in having a booth.
If that, if you think that's something that maybe of value.
When I say value, I really mean.
Educating ourselves around the folks in the industry in the in the industry and.
Getting to put faces and organizations in their proper order as we kind of look at the broader market. And John was again kind enough to put us together, thought that there may be some value in in US participating.

Lori Byrd   4:32
I'm a, you know, I'm a.
I'm a big supporter of null in itself.
We get a lot of value out of it.
We have been going to NALA for over 20 years.
We can go and see a lot of people.
In one place at a short time for a reasonable amount of money.
We are taking this year. We're taking a lot of people.
Natalie Monroe, who's our Vice President of safety and.
Sustainability.
Who? She's also an owner, shareholder, whatever.
Paul's going.
He's our director of OSB sales.
Terry's going.
He's our executive Vice president of sales and manufacturing.
We'll take Trisha, who's in OSB sales. Kristy, who's in export and import.
And OSB sales, Kelly, who does OSB, plywood and Timbers?
Well, just come on.
Bobby's going.
He's our executive Vice President of Research and Development. I'm going.
And that makes it.

Kenny, Mike   5:50
It's it's not. It sounds as if.
Here an example of the kind of company that would be going to this trade show.
You would you would bring a broad swath of of different.

Lori Byrd   6:00
Yeah.
Me and our director of.

Kenny, Mike   6:09
Of different department types and or. Yeah, not just sales folks. It would be.

Lori Byrd   6:16
No, no, no, no.
It's not just that like last year, Jacob went to the traders market this past spring, John went to the.
Leadership forum.
John's been to the traders market before.
But yeah, we take.
Executives, we've taken shareholders we've taken.
Transportation People, HR sales.
Support people.
It's a broad mix and I think.
I don't know if you can look at their website, I think.

Kenny, Mike   6:55
I've got enough, I don't know.
I'm sharing it.
I don't know if you can see that on your screen.
I have the website up right now.

Lori Byrd   7:02
Let's see. OK on there.
Go to the attendees.

Kenny, Mike   7:11
Right.

Lori Byrd   7:11
And I would search by company.

Kenny, Mike   7:14
Yeah, I've actually looked at the attendee list quite.
It's quite substantial.

Lori Byrd   7:18
It's very it, it is.
And you know, like you've got somebody like blue links who's bringing their CEO, and you've got the four, Citigroup, who brings traders and.
Managers and presidents from each division and you've got.
You know dmsi and you've got.
Insurance companies, you've got reload companies, I mean, it's a very broad mix.
Of what?
Our industry is.
I mean, you've got.
Like I said, you're talking to the cheerleader here, so.

Kenny, Mike   8:00
Well it it sounds.
It sounds like it.
I mean, I I'm very interested and.
We have already in in our heads committed to going.

Lori Byrd   8:11
If you filled out an application for membership.

Kenny, Mike   8:12
It was.
We have to do that.
I was kind of waiting for this conversation before we we proceeded with that.
But conceptually, we've already we've already gone through the process of of reviewing what's out there and we see some value in it and against conceptually we were, we were gonna go short of this conversation.

Lori Byrd   8:42
There's people you know and.
Most of it is North America.
There are.
Some European spruce manufacturers that go.
There are. I've got a customer from Puerto Rico who's going.
There's a lot of people from Canada that go.
There are some people from Mexico, but it it's a very broad spectrum of our industry, but it does not include any retail.
It doesn't include any of the box stores and it does not include any of the buying groups.

Kenny, Mike   9:21
And honestly, that's probably a great way to approach it, kind of putting a fence around the industry and short of going all the way to the retail space, our space, you may or may not be aware, but our space is primarily bulk and break bulk materials, so we,
not really interested in doing.
Small, small orders we can do less than truckload, but it's it's primarily full truckloads and that's reason why John has employed our company to work with you folks.
To to help his his transportation.
Spend and get a good grasp of how that, how that operates and how how we can use or he can use our service to save him some money so.

Lori Byrd   10:16
So you know, I'm not a big, just be quite honest.
I mean, if John hasn't told you, he probably should have.
I'm not a big fan of import. Pall would coming into this country, obviously from Chile or Brazil or China or anywhere else.
But it does come and there are people like the four Citigroup, the Richmond International, Birmingham, Tampa. These guys bring in a tremendous amount of imported product, whether it's European spruce or it's plow down of Brazil or OSB out of.
Finland or wherever.
Like I said, it's a very broad mix.
It just it is the North American Wholesale Lumber Association.
So it does not include retail or buying groups or box stores, which I think you will find beneficial.
And.

Kenny, Mike   11:13
Intelligence France was born of the rail industry and we back in probably the early part of the 2000s. We added troops.
We we made a purchase of carrier point and carrier point is the product that that that John is using.

Lori Byrd   11:33
All the railroads are there.

Kenny, Mike   11:35
Yeah, all the railroads will probably be there and.
But we're we're we're we work with the railroads, we're customers of the railroads data.
But.

Lori Byrd   11:48
So you know better treatment.

Kenny, Mike   11:48
We we do, we do.
We do.
We do work in a rail space.
But we are are are big in truck as well and our primary market is North America. As a matter of fact we only have a few customers in Europe probably.
Need less than 10.
And have an office over in London.
Yeah, it's a, it's a small.
It's a small presence, so we are us based with a focus on the North American market.
So this seems to be a great kind of opportunity to to join your your organization.
But NAW LL organization.
Who to help support?
Members. So we're looking forward to it, Laurie.

Lori Byrd   12:41
I think that you, I really do believe that you will find it beneficial and.
You know, like one of my biggest customers, international forest products are based out of Foxborough, Massachusetts.
They export to the Caribbean to Puerto Rico, which I don't consider the Caribbean, which is another story.
They, you know, they export to.
Mexico and.
Europe, the Middle East and they go out of mobile Pascagoula.
Houston, New Orleans.
Yeah, there's a lot of that.
And there's a lot of people that bring it in.
So I think it's just AI think you get a good broad picture of the industry.
I would love to tell you what the cost is, but based on what y'all do, I don't know.

Kenny, Mike   13:36
Yeah, and we'll, we'll we'll sort that out.
We just wanted to get to your perspective and it's it's less about the cost and more about the the return return on investment, right?
So based on every.

Lori Byrd   13:52
We find it very valuable.

Kenny, Mike   13:55
Yeah, I'm sure you do. And and I tell you what, when when we when we go, I think right now it's it's the plan is to maybe.
I'll be going as well as my West Coast counterpart and we're we have a new Vice President of sales joining us in two weeks and I would imagine he'd want to come with us. So it'll probably be a party of three and we'll get a lay of the.
Land for our first go around and once we understand where we can.
Help the industry will bring in other professionals that we have in the organization to also gain the education that we expect to get when we're there.

Lori Byrd   14:40
I'd like to set up.
I'm probably not the best person because I really am the cheerleader.
Because I've always found it to be.
Very beneficial. I mean it's a we get a Big Bang for our buck.

Kenny, Mike   14:55
Sure.
So we hope we can do the same.

Lori Byrd   15:01
Is the best way for me to put it?

Kenny, Mike   15:03
At a minimum, we'll gain a an education around.
Who? Who you works in your industry and and how they work together.
Whether it's here in the US or or abroad.
John probably told you that we do some work with import, export and tracking of containers as well as trucking and rail.
So he's gonna probably look at our products later on.
But we are focused primarily in the US and as I looked at the attendee list, it seemed like the only really trucking organization that was there that I saw was right, which.

Lori Byrd   15:46
Spider is there. They are.
They are definitely there.

Kenny, Mike   15:50
Yeah, and.
Do they have a big presence?
Do they bring a bunch of folks or?

Lori Byrd   15:55
No, I would say that.
Yeah, I in all honesty, I I don't get out and walk the floor.
I I stay in the booth and I usually stay very busy.
I have a lot of customers to go, but there are plenty of people who do walk the floor. Ryder always comes by the booth and I normally see two or three of them.

Kenny, Mike   16:14
Yeah. Well, that's that's good.

Lori Byrd   16:19
Yeah.

Kenny, Mike   16:20
Would be. Would it be out of bounds for me to ask for a favor?

Lori Byrd   16:24
Oh.

Kenny, Mike   16:25
Would would it be possible for you or members of your team to spend a little time with us when we're there and potentially introduce us to some folks?
You know, it doesn't necessarily have to be your your competitors or it doesn't have to be other other Tangental Walmart companies, but just people in the industry.
So we want to introduce ourselves.
To the broader swath of of of your industry.

Lori Byrd   16:58
No, I don't.
I don't think that's online at all, and I would hope.

Kenny, Mike   17:02
OK.

Lori Byrd   17:05
Somebody from Nala, whether it's myself or somebody else from the Smith buckling group or the executive committee, or the Board of Directors, should come by and talk to you and offer any help that you might need.
But no, just come to the booth and find me.
And I'll certainly either get with you and or I'll get somebody in our department from our group to walk to, walk around and introduce you to some people because it's a it's a competitor friendly environment.
I don't think any of us really, you know, just obviously we're very aware of the antitrust laws.
I'm probably a little more stringent on that, some than some other people, but.
You know, I think there's a a general respect in our industry for our competitors and one another and I think we pretty much treat it that way.
So no, I mean, as a representative of of the Executive Committee for NALA, I have no issue taking you anywhere. You need to go.

Kenny, Mike   18:08
For certain, that's a that's a.
It's a great pleasure, great pleasure to have you support.

Lori Byrd   18:12
I did.
I did.
I do encourage you if you want to go to apply for membership because they will close it soon.

Kenny, Mike   18:24
OK.

Lori Byrd   18:25
And you have to fill out an application, you've got to have somebody.

Kenny, Mike   18:26
Oh, OK.

Lori Byrd   18:32
That you can go as a reference.
Is there somebody?
I mean, I would put John Smith down as a reference and.

Kenny, Mike   18:39
Sure.

Lori Byrd   18:41
I don't know who else you're doing business with in the states that might be in our industry.
I would encourage you to use one of them.

Kenny, Mike   18:48
We have quite a few. We lean on Weyerhaeuser and some others, so.

Lori Byrd   18:53
Houser's a member.
I mean anybody that you know is a member.
Like Boise, Roseburg, Murphy, any of these people that are members.
Capital Forest products, Weston Town of Canada.

Kenny, Mike   19:03
Yeah. And we and we do business with Nwh and we do Western forest products or customers of ours as well.
So we've got.

Lori Byrd   19:12
Justin is a very big they're very big in Nala, and they carry they swing a big stick.

Kenny, Mike   19:19
All right.
Well, that's that's great to know.
So we do business with all those folks.
And it's maybe it's maybe this is less of an introduction and more of a broadening of our presence in the marketplace, so.

Lori Byrd   19:33
I think you'll enjoy it.
And if Phoenix in November is not a bad place to go?

Kenny, Mike   19:39
No, I I also, I have a son that lives in Phoenix.
He he goes to Arizona State.
So I may spend a moment with him taking to lunch or something. I don't know, see.

Lori Byrd   19:53
Well, that's another thing is that you know, we are reaching out to some of the local schools and universities.
They're looking for students that are who might be interested in some part of this industry.
So yeah, I don't know what he's going to school for.

Kenny, Mike   20:07
Sure.

Lori Byrd   20:10
Hopefully something you know beneficial but.

Kenny, Mike   20:15
No, it's. Yeah, we, we we as parents have hopes and aspirations and then.
There are the wants and needs of the generation that he lives it, that he lives in.

Lori Byrd   20:26
Yes.

Kenny, Mike   20:28
So I I said.
I said to the young man.
I said, listen, get one of three degrees and then you'll be fine.
I said finance economics or accounting, less accounting, but that's fine.
And then so he he he he goes through the business floor and he's gonna get a degree in sports management.
This is a very big sports guy and I said, well, can't you do that minor? And he and he said no, I think I did want me to be my major.
So he's a junior and I'm not going to fight him on it because.
Either he'll make a big splash in the sports world, or he'll be able to look at me and say, see.
You were right, Dad.
So I'll I'll I'm gonna let. I'm gonna let him do his thing.
I think he'll be fine, but.

Lori Byrd   21:15
Be fine. He will find his own way.

Kenny, Mike   21:16
He'll be fine.
What? What he will find is his own way. And maybe I'll introduce him to you and he can be your brightest sales sales guy in the in the in the Southwest, see.

Lori Byrd   21:30
We're always looking for somebody who is, who wants to work.

Kenny, Mike   21:35
Yeah, super.
Well, Lori, thank you very much for spending time with me.
I really appreciate it.
You didn't have to do that.
And I I know I took time out of your afternoon so.

Lori Byrd   21:44
No, you're fine.
I'm glad to help and like I said, if there's something else I can do, let me know.
And once you get your application in, I'm sure I will see it.

Kenny, Mike   21:54
OK, fantastic, Laura.
Thank you very much. We'll talk soon.

Lori Byrd   21:59
Have a good one. Thank you. Bye.

Kenny, Mike   22:00
All right.
Thank you. Bye bye.

Kenny, Mike stopped transcription
